Synopsis of the Project:
< In not more than 400 words>
Write a synopsis in not more than 400 words for a project named - 'RoboScout: A wireless rover with camera feed and a robotic arm' consisting of a rover module and a controller module. Both the modules have ESP8266 boards and they are communicating using bluetooth low energy BLE through the server-client model. The rover receives 3 characteristics. One for the rover, one for the camera movement and one for the robotic arm movement The project is completed in three stages. Stage 1: The rover is controlled using an analog joystick which can move in 4 directions. The direction is send as a string from the controller(server) to the rover(client). The rover side ESP8266 receives the string and gives signal to a L298N motor driver to run the motors and produce the given motion. However, before moving the rover forward, left or right, corresponding ultrasonic sensor value is checked. If there is an obstacle less than 10 cm from the rover, a buzzer makes a sound alarming the operator about the obstacle. Stage 2: An esp32 cam module is used to provide real-time camera feed. This module is set up using SG90 servo motors that can make it move in 2 axes - x and y. The camera feed is accessible within a private network that is accessed by an IP address. The movement of camera setup is also done using another analogue joystick. The movement of the joystick is also send as a string to the rover side esp8266. Depending on the motion, the servo motors connected to servo motor driver: PCA9685 move the motors to achieve desired motion. Stage 3: Two robotic arms are designed to implement the feature of arm movement. One assembled with servo motors which is placed on the rover. Another is a miniature replica about the size of our hand and is assembled using potentiometers. The logic is - when the miniature arm is moved, the resistance values are changed in the potentiometers. These values are again sent as a string to the rover side esp8266. On the rover side, the string is parsed and these values are stored in an array. Then they are given to the arm motors using servo motor driver. Hence the miniature arm on the controller controls the arm on the rover. The joystick values of the rover and camera movements and the arm motor values are continuously send from the controller to the rover once they are connected. OLEDs on both modules are interfaced to indicate the above mentioned. This project finds application in surveying ruins, providing emergency supplies during an earthquake or simply an industrial bot being deployed in the production line.
